
# Loading Secure Web Pages with HTTPS And OpenSSL

This project demonstrates how to use OpenSSL to generate SSL/TLS certificates and provide encryption for a web server and client


## Installing OpenSSL

You can try installing libssh from your package manager with the following command:

```bash
  sudo apt-get install libssh-dev
```
We will also need CMake installed in order to build libssh. You can obtain CMake
from https:/​/​cmake.​org/​. You can also get it from your distro's packaging tool with the
following command:

```bash
  sudo apt-get install zlib1g-dev
```
Once you have CMake, the zlib library, and the OpenSSL library installed, locate the
version of libssh you would like from https:/​/​www.​libssh.​org/​. Version 0.8.7 is the
latest at the time of writing. You can download and extract the libssh source code with
the following commands:

```bash
wget https://www.libssh.org/files/0.8/libssh-0.8.7.tar.xz
tar xvf libssh-0.8.7.tar.xz
cd libssh-0.8.7
```
    
## Technical Requirements
The programs in this project can be compiled using any modern C compiler.
We recommend MinGW for Windows and GCC for Linux and macOS.

While
compiling on Windows, each example program requires linking with the Winsock library.
This can be accomplished by passing the -lws2_32 option to gcc.

Each example also needs to be linked against the OpenSSL libraries, libssl.a and
libcrypto.a. This is accomplished by passing -lssl -lcrypto to gcc.
## Self-signed certificates with OpenSSL
* Certificates signed by recognized authorities are essential to establish the chain of trust needed for public websites. 
* It is also acceptable to use a self-signed certificate for certain private applications where the client can be deployed with a copy of the certificate, and trust only that certificate.This is called certificate pinning.
* We require a certificate to test our HTTPS server. We use a self-signed certificate because they are the easiest to obtain. The downside to this method is that web browsers won't trust our server. We can get around this by clicking through a few warnings in the web browser.
* The basic command to self-sign a certificate is as follows:
```bash
    openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -sha256 -keyout key.pem \-out cert.pem -days 365
```
* You can also use OpenSSL to view a certificate. The following command does this:
```bash
    openssl x509 -text -noout -in cert.pem
```


## Web Server

* Install OpenSSL on your machine.
* The web server part of this project creates a socket using OpenSSL libraries and creates a self-signed certificate to use for verification with the browser. It establishes a connection with the client and displays the corresponding request result on the web browser.
* Start the web server by running the following command:
```bash
    gcc security_server.c -o server -lssl -lcrypto
    ./server
```
* You can connect to the web server by navigating your web browser to https://127.0.0.1:8080.
* Upon the first connection, your browser will reject the self-signed certificate.
* To access the web server, you need to add an exception in the browser. The method for this is different in each browser, but generally, there is an Advanced button that leads to an option to either add a certificate exception or otherwise proceed with the insecure connection.



## Web Client
* The web client part of this project accepts the domain name and port number 443 as command line arguments and parses the HTTP response.
* Open a terminal window and navigate to the root directory of the project.
* Run the following command to start the client and pass in the domain name and port number as arguments:
```bash
    gcc security_client.c -o client -lssl -lcrypto
    ./client example.org 443
```
* The client will establish a connection with the server and retrieve the response, which will be displayed in the terminal window.
* If you run into linker errors, you should check that your OpenSSL library is properly installed.
* The standard HTTPS port number is 443. Our program lets the user specify any port number, which can be useful for testing.
## Security
This project uses SSL/TLS certificates generated by OpenSSL to provide secure communication between the web server and client. The communication is encrypted using the AES encryption algorithm. The keys used for encryption are generated using OpenSSL and are stored on the server.

## HTTPS Server Challenges
Before deploying a secure HTTPS server with OpenSSL, it is essential to review all the OpenSSL documentation carefully.